
Software Requirements Specification
for
School Management System
Version 1.0 approved
Prepared by CE104(Karan) 
Dharamsinh Desai University(C.E Dept), Nadiad

05/01/2019    Saturday
Acronyms:
SRS: Software requirement specification document
SMS: School management system


	
	
1. Introduction
1.1 Purpose 
The purpose of this SMS is to handle all students, teachers, principle and all other user’s activity regarding school can be doing totally online in a hasslefree
Environment.
1.2 Intended Audience 
All users who are directly or indirectly communicating with school like students, teachers, principle, parents, accountant etc.
1.3 Product Scope
Scope of our system is that it works only for schools not for any other educational institutes like coaching and university, collage etc.
1.4 Product Perspective
This product is replacement of currently existing offline management system based on registers only. 
1.5 Product Functions
Our SMS is able to perform those every activities which were performed in older handy system with more functionalities.
1.6 User Classes 
-Student
-Teacher
-Principle
-Accountant
-Parent
1.7 Operating Environment
Our SMS is platform independent so you can use it with any OS environment(Mac, Windows, Linux etc).
1.8 Design and Implementation Constraints
Here designing is done by following UML instructions and implementation of this system is carried out by using well known web development framework: Django.
2. External Interface Requirements
2.1 Software Interfaces
In SMS we are going to use sqlite database and python3 language for implementation in Django framework.
2.2 Communications Interfaces
Our SMS can be easily used over http protocol.
3. System Features

3.1 Description/ Functional Requirements and Priority:

	(P0: highest priority task)
	Users of System:

	Note: Planning to implement till p3.

	1)Student Activity:

	P0. student can see his/her school result online. 
	P1. student can see his/her class Attendance.
	P2. student can see  his/her allocated assignment or project or timetable by teacher.
	P3. student can see timetable.
	P4. student can generate  his/her fee-reciept.
	P5. new student can apply for admission to the school.
	
	2)Teacher Activity:
	
	P0. teacher can see any student's information of his class.  
	P1. teacher can upload student's marks and generate result.
	P2. teacher can upload student's attendance.
	P3. teacher can upload student assignment/project online.
	P4. teacher can organize a PTM(parent teacher meeting) via notice. 
	
	
	3)Principal Activity(Admin):
	
	P0. principal can enroll new students and hire new teacher.
	P1. principal can see any student's or teacher's information.
	P2. principal can assign classes and subjects to teachers.
	P3. principal can decide rules for school and push it to the notice board.
	P4. principal can generate timetable for class and push it to the notice board.


	4)Parents Activity:

	P0. Parents can view student result as well as attendance.
	P1. Parents can view notices published by principle/teachers.
 
	
	5)Accountant Activity:

	P0. Accountant can accept student fees.
	P1. Accountant can generate salary cheques for teachers/principle.

	
4. Other Nonfunctional Requirements
4.1 Availability
The system should available for 24 hours per 6 days.
4.2 Certification
Our SMS is certified from ISO for Best Software of the Year.


4.3 Capacity
Our SMS is having a capacity of storing 1000 students records online.
4.4 Durability
Our SMS is durable to sustain about 5 years.
4.5 Documentation
Our SMS user documentation is provided in a hard as well as soft copy to the end user made by developers.
